README.md, before:

![LOGO for Clipboard to Color plugin](./.assets/clipboard-to-color-logo.png)

# clipboard-to-color
This is a Python plugin for Krita that copies the color code (hexcode, rgb, etc) in your clipboard to your current Foreground Color.

### Supported Formats:[^1]
| Format | Example |
| ------ | ------ |
Hexcode:         |       ``ffaa00``
Hexcode with alpha[^2]:  |   ``#ffaa0011 ``
RGB:          |          ``rgb(239, 104, 255)``
RGBA:            |       ``rgba(239, 104, 255, 0.3)``

[^1]: Scans for first regex match for these formats. It would match asflkdsABABCD, kahds#692738, etc. as a hexcode.
[^2]: Opacity is not supported for Foreground Colors, so the Opacity of the current Brush Preset is changed instead.

## Installation

<!-- ### Recommended Method:
### Manual Method: -->

Go to the button that says "<> Code" near the top of the page. Click it, then click ``Download ZIP``.

Put the .action file (``actions/ClipboardToColor.action``) in KRITA/actions 

Put everything else (the ``./clipboard_to_color`` folder) in KRITA/pykrita

where KRITA is Krita's Resource Folder.

## Usage

After enabling this plugin, restart Krita. 
Then, go to the 
``Settings / Configure Krita / Keyboard Shortcuts: Scripts / My Scripts``
section and look for the keyboard shortcut labelled ``Clipboard to Color``.

Then, assign a keyboard binding to the shortcut.

To test this, go ahead and copy some sort of color code (ex. ``#042069``, a nice dark blue) and then use the shortcut while focused on the Krita window. 
It should be your new foreground color! 

## Inspiration

I recently installed Microsoft PowerToys and made frequent use of the ColorPicker tool it adds to colorpick various things on my screen and not in Krita. Unfortunately, the only method I could find to get that hexcode into Krita for work was opening up the color palette and manually pasting it in. Obviously, that impedes workflow, so I threw a script together and made it a plugin.


## Limitations

Currently, this plugin has only been made and developed around the RGB color space. Support for CMYK is unlikely at this time.

Commit message:

added .desktop file; documentation updates

README.md, after:

![LOGO for Clipboard to Color plugin](./.assets/clipboard-to-color-logo.png)

# clipboard-to-color
This is a Python plugin for Krita that copies the color code (hexcode, rgb, etc) in your clipboard to your current Foreground Color.

### Supported Formats:[^1]
| Format | Example |
| ------ | ------ |
Hexcode:         |       ``ffaa00``
Hexcode with alpha[^2]:  |   ``#ffaa0011 ``
RGB:          |          ``rgb(239, 104, 255)``
RGBA:            |       ``rgba(239, 104, 255, 0.3)``

[^1]: Scans for first regex match for these formats. It would match asflkdsABABCD, kahds#692738, etc. as a hexcode.
[^2]: Opacity is not supported for Foreground Colors, so the Opacity of the current Brush Preset is changed instead.

## Installation

<!-- ### Recommended Method:
### Manual Method: -->

Go to the button that says "<> Code" near the top of the page. Click it, then click ``Download ZIP``.

Put the .action file (``actions/ClipboardToColor.action``) in KRITA/actions 

Put everything else (the ``clipboard_to_color`` folder, and the ``clipboard_to_color.desktop`` file) in KRITA/pykrita

where KRITA is Krita's Resource Folder.

If you are having trouble with these instructions, please see the official Krita manual page for locating the Resource Folder and installing Python plugins [here](https://docs.krita.org/en/user_manual/python_scripting/install_custom_python_plugin.html).

## Usage

After enabling this plugin, restart Krita. 
Then, go to the 
``Settings / Configure Krita / Keyboard Shortcuts: Scripts / My Scripts``
section and look for the keyboard shortcut labelled ``Clipboard to Color``.

Then, assign a keyboard binding to the shortcut.

To test this, go ahead and copy some sort of color code (ex. ``#042069``, a nice dark blue) and then use the shortcut while focused on the Krita window. 
It should be your new foreground color! 

## Inspiration

I recently installed [Microsoft PowerToys](https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys) and made frequent use of the Color Picker tool it adds to colorpick various things on my screen and not in Krita. Unfortunately, the only method I could find to get that hexcode into Krita for work was opening up the color palette and manually pasting it in. Obviously, that impedes workflow, so I threw a script together and made it a plugin.


## Limitations

Currently, this plugin has only been made and developed around the RGB color space. Support for CMYK is unlikely at this time.
